Welcome back.
We've written quite a few tests now and well 13 tests.
That's not bad for a small lot.
There's definitely more that we can do but I want to cover the last part.
Now that I think is important and that is testing our actions now you might be asking yourself what
about Constance are we not testing the Constans file but you can see here that Constance are just simply
well just assigning string constants to a variable and when you're testing you really want to decide
for yourself what you need to test and why you don't test.
You really get into a rabbit hole that is you just keep working on test keep working on tests.
And next thing you know you haven't really done anything on the production side of things and tests
are important but you really want to avoid the idea that oh I just need to have a hundred pass tests
or 100 snapshots or I need my code coverage to be 100 percent.
It's actually not a good idea to have 100 percent code coverage because it means that you're running
tests that most likely don't need to be run and your time could have been spent wisely in other areas
of your app.
Remember there's infinit things that we can do to refactor or make our code prettier write more tests
but we have limited time.
So as a senior developer you have to decide for yourself where the tradeoffs are.
All right.
So Constans file we don't really need tests for that but actions.
I think we do need some tests for our actions.
Let's create an action or actions that test fall
and within here.
Let's once again import star as actions.
From our actions file
and with the first action that we have which is the set search field.
That's a pretty simple one.
We just want to make sure that this function returns this object so we can just use basic just functionality
here.
We can just have the it and I know I should be using that described to you to separate out the two actions
that we have.
But I think you get the idea you can do that on your own.
I want to get you to board here but let's have it should create an action to search robots and this
is going to have
a simple very simple stack Sloth's have a constant text that's going to equal our search term to and
the consulates have the expected action and the expected action is going to be our object of
and let's import our constants here as well.
So we can use them.
It's going to have a type of change search field and a payload.
And this is the expected action.
So we expect that the action is going to include the text or we don't need the string characters here.
There you go.
So we can simply just say xpect actions
search what was it.
It was set search field.
Copy that set search field
to have the text and to have two equal.
So we want to set the search field with that text and we need it to have the expected output of the
action so expected action.
Let's save.
And what did I miss here.
Let's see no comma here.
Now over using the commas.
This test section has been hard on me with the commas.
You're right.
So there you go.
We have new tests now in the actions that is passing.
Very very nice.
And that simple we should know how to do that.
But here's the challenging part.
Now we have this action request robots that oh boy does a dispatch and a have an API call here and this
is something that you might not have seen.
I've created an API for that here that simply extracts out our fetch call.
So we give it a u r l and does the response response so on so that it simplifies things for things for
us so we don't have to constantly do fetch them response response Sardesai But you've seen this before
the whereas it
the actions just have they dispatch of request robot's pending.
And then finally it's going to have either success or failed.
So how do we do this because looking at this action we need dispatch because this is an asynchronous
action Remember we need to thank for it.
We need a thunk middleware.
Let's start writing the tests and see what we can improve on.
I'm going to close some of these tabs just to clean things out.
There you go.
And we're going to create a new block and in this block we want to say handle's
changing changing or handles requesting robots API
and we'll say here that well the very first thing we want to do we need to pass the dispatch to our
function again I remembered the dispatch here well if we do it without this so let's just test it out.
If I run the xpect actions dot request robot's action and I believe that's what's called the request
robots and we leave it at this and let's just say that we expect the type of the action
to have the say requests robot's pending and payload.
If we look at our actions we're not sending any payloads so we can just go ahead and leave that as it
is.
If I save yet one failed
request robots and there you go I get an error type error.
Dispatch is not a function because remember with asynchronous code we need to pass this dispatch function
to actually run this and we used to thunk middleware in order for us to do this if you remember indexed.
Yes we have the thunk middleware and here how do we do this.
Well there is a special package that we can use here.
Let me exit out of this make this a little bit bigger.
Let's clear we can install a package called the redux
store and remember that this gives us access to a fake store that we can use for testing.
So let's do and PM install dash dash safe.
Def
and now we have access to this fake store and the way we can use it is if I go up here and I say import
configure store and once again this is all in their documentation for the package you want to use the
redox maake store.
And we also want to import the thunk middleware from the redox
package which if you remember we already have in our index does jazz file.
And the last thing we need to do me make sure it's lined up properly is to configure and create this
store so we can simply just say Konst locked store.
Equals
configure locked store and reconfigure it by giving it some properties of which one of them is the middleware
that we're going to use which is going to be the Thankx middleware.
So sometimes you're most likely going to add this in a set up test file.
For now I'm going to keep it in here because we only have one action file but you can usually export
it.
So the store is available to all your tests.
So now we can create the store
equal to the maake store and we were on it.
And I can now say store Daut dispatch and store that dispatch takes actions dot requests robots.
So we're going to dispatch this action.
Remember that's this action over here.
And once we dispatch that we can do something like Konst action equals to store Daut get actions.
And now this action is going to contain what we need.
Let me just console log it to show you.
So console the log
action that's going to contain the action let's save Iran NPM test.
Scroll up and I have a bit of a console log error here.
The configure Mock's store should be configure Haake store here.
All right so we see that dispatch is not a function.
Now why is that and this is something that you may have noticed while we're looking at the action.
J.S. S-5 you remember that redux thank expects a function to be returned.
And although our program works the way it is now you ideally want to let's go back to the top dog.
Yes.
You see here that and this is something we talked about before the redux section.
You see here that we're just giving the dispatch to our request robots.
But the way Thankx works is we want to make sure that we dispatch like this run the function inside
of it so that we can run the dispatch dispatch function just like we have in our tests over here and
the actions requests robots and we want to dispatch that.
Otherwise we would have to do store Daut dispatch Midhir which is kind of ugly.
Once again to fix that all we need to do is in the actions because if you remember Apogee Yes we have
dispatched now and quest robots needs to run.
So we're just going to have a function inside of a function and we want to make sure that this works
as well.
So I'm going to go back and do NPM start
bright and everything still works.
But now we're able to hopefully run the tests better so and PM test
go back to our tests and we see that we have one fail.
We have a type requests robot's pending that we expected but we got a function instead.
And if we log actions we see that we have a action type of request robot's pending which we're getting.
And that's because you can see that the action is returning an array.
And we want the object of the action in the xpect because we no longer need to run this action.
It's all being run up here and we can get the actions we can just say xpect action
the first item in the array to be run and look at that everything works.
And I know this can get a little bit confusing.
And any time you're testing asynchronous things it can get pretty difficult.
But all we did was really create a fake store that had the thunk middleware so it awaits for any functions
that are returned from an action in which case we did with our actions requests robots because you see
here that every turns an action that takes a dispatch and now this dispatch gets automatically sentence's
requests robots it's going to receive the actions.
And because if we go to our action.
Yes.
The very first thing we dispatch is the pending action we receive action zero.
Called the expected action of robots pending.
All right.
So how do we test the request robot's success and request robots fail.
And that's a little challenge that I'm going to leave for you to decide what to do based on what we've
learned about asynchronous tests and also what we've learned about mocking our redux or and this is
a tough challenging problem.
So use whatever resources you have at hand Internet Google stack overflow anything you can to try and
figure this out because that's what testing is all about.
Testing is sometimes very simple when you have pure functional components or functions or it could be
really difficult when you have all these dependencies that your tests run on.
But every situation is different.
And luckily for us with all these resources online you can figure it out as long as you understand how
things work and what the errors mean which as a senior developer is the most important thing.
They don't know every single syntax in a library and know all the documentation.
They just understand how things work underneath the hood so that when the problem arises they can solve
it.
Finally I wanted to show you two things that may help you or I think are great.
Whenever you are doing asynchronous tests the first one is a library called knock and knock simply is
an empty package.
You can install and you can see over here that we can pretend that we're doing a you are alcohol.
We can do a get request to an endpoint and we can automatically reply with whatever we want.
We can say that this reply had a status of 200 and it gave us user name and email.
And this sets you up really nicely for asynchronous tests once you get deep into testing as well especially
when you start working with API.
Super Test is one of my favorite tools simply by importing super tests just like here.
And we have the request he can request let's say an express app and you can do all these sayings like
running get and expecting a Content-Type and a status and a ton of things.
Now this is beyond the scope of this course and is something that you can take a look at has you get
more and more into testing but just realize that there's tons of tools out there for you to use to write
clean nice beautiful tests.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.